# BIOMD0000000002: BIOMD0000000002

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000002.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000002.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Edelstein1996 - EPSP ACh species

Model of a nicotinic Excitatory Post-Synaptic Potential in a Torpedo electric
organ. Acetylcholine is represented explicitely as a molecular species.

This model has initially been encoded using StochSim.

This model is described in the article:

[A kinetic mechanism for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors based on multiple
allosteric transitions.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/8983160)

Edelstein SJ, Schaad O, Henry E, Bertrand D, Changeux JP.

Biol. Cybern. 1996 Nov; 75(5):361-79

Abstract:

Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are transmembrane oligomeric proteins that
mediate interconversions between open and closed channel states under the
control of neurotransmitters. Fast in vitro chemical kinetics and in vivo
electrophysiological recordings are consistent with the following multi-step
scheme. Upon binding of agonists, receptor molecules in the closed but
activatable resting state (the Basal state, B) undergo rapid transitions to
states of higher affinities with either open channels (the Active state, A) or
closed channels (the initial Inactivatable and fully Desensitized states, I
and D). In order to represent the functional properties of such receptors, we
have developed a kinetic model that links conformational interconversion rates
to agonist binding and extends the general principles of the Monod-Wyman-
Changeux model of allosteric transitions. The crucial assumption is that the
linkage is controlled by the position of the interconversion transition states
on a hypothetical linear reaction coordinate. Application of the model to the
peripheral nicotine acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) accounts for the main
properties of ligand-gating, including single-channel events, and several new
relationships are predicted. Kinetic simulations reveal errors inherent in
using the dose-response analysis, but justify its application under defined
conditions. The model predicts that (in order to overcome the intrinsic
stability of the B state and to produce the appropriate cooperativity) channel
activation is driven by an A state with a Kd in the 50 nM range, hence some
140-fold stronger than the apparent affinity of the open state deduced
previously. According to the model, recovery from the desensitized states may
occur via rapid transit through the A state with minimal channel opening, thus
without necessarily undergoing a distinct recovery pathway, as assumed in the
standard 'cycle' model. Transitions to the desensitized states by low
concentration 'pre-pulses' are predicted to occur without significant channel
opening, but equilibrium values of IC50 can be obtained only with long pre-
pulse times. Predictions are also made concerning allosteric effectors and
their possible role in coincidence detection. In terms of future developments,
the analysis presented here provides a physical basis for constructing more
biologically realistic models of synaptic modulation that may be applied to
artificial neural networks.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000002](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000002) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


